We're facing an issue when a client makes a bad request such that the JSON fields couldn't possibly
map to the properties of our user object, then this object mapper is going to throw an exception as
it tries to perform the serialization process.
In turn, this exception is going to get caught and throw a runtime exception.
And now we want to handle this exception in order to then send back a status code of bad request indicating
that a bad request was made.
We could not understand what they were trying to send us.
The problem isn't that we couldn't authorize them.
They simply made a bad request.
And now some of you might be wondering why not just create an exception handler instead of controller
advice that handles this runtime exception?
Unfortunately, we cannot do that.
The dispatcher Servlet is at the center of receiving a request, invoking the controller's handler methods
and then sending back a response.
And then if something were to go wrong, the exception handler is inside of the controller advice would
handle the failed request and then send back a 400 of some sort which would then be forwarded back to
the client.
But the issue is, before the request can reach the dispatcher servlet, it has to go through our security
filters.
And because our filters are executed before the dispatcher servlet, we cannot catch exceptions thrown
from the filters inside of the exception handlers.
So how do we deal with this problem?
Well, we'll get to that in just a second.
But before doing so, I want to play around with filters a little.
We're going to set something like this up.
When a request is made to, let's say, authenticate first, it will go through a filter called filter
one, which is just going to print a random message.
Then it's going to go through the authentication filter, and then it's just going to go through another
filter that's just going to print a random message.
These filters will not do anything spring security related.
They're just there for us to practice on.
So inside the filter folder, what I'm going to do is create a new filter called Filter one.
And it's going to implement the filter interface that derives from Java DOT servlet.
And by doing so we are forced to override a due filter method.
So once a request reaches this filter, what's going to run is the due filter method.
For fun, we can access the data that's inside of it.
So what I'll do is I'm actually going to typecast this to an HTTP request, http servlet request.
Because an HTTP request is what will be expecting and from it I'm going to say get request URI which
gives us the path.
So if you were to hover over this, it tells you it returns the part of the request URL from the protocol.
Blah, blah, blah, the path.
Let's just print it up for fun.
For clarity purposes.
I'm also just going to print.
Hey, we are in filter one.
Per the diagram that I just showed you, we want this filter to run before the authentication filter.
So what we can do is inside of our filter chain, we're going to add a filter before the filter is going
to be a new instance of filter one and it's going to run before the authentication filter.
How do we do that?
Well, this function accepts a class type.
So by saying authentication filter class, it's going to know to run filter one before the auth filter.
Let's test this out.
I'm going to run the application in debug mode and add some breakpoints over here.
Some breakpoints over here.
Let the OP run.
All right, let's fix this up.
And beautiful.
The first thing that runs rightfully so.
The first filter in our filter chain.
If I step through this, it's going to print the path of the request.
So here you can do whatever you want with this.
You can say if the path is authenticate, then do this.
Otherwise do something else.
We're not going to be doing anything of that sort.
We're just playing around.
I'm going to press next.
Hey, we're in filter one.
And it should have gone to attempt authentication, but it didn't.
And this should make you wonder, why didn't it?
We clearly said in the security filter chain, this is the first filter.
And what follows is the authentication filter.
While the problem is when it reaches here, we're not telling it where to go after the request.
Doesn't just magically travel along the filter chain to eventually reach our dispatcher servlet and
then invoke whatever method you need to keep telling the request where to go at every step of the way.
So once you finish printing both of these messages, what we're going to say is chain.
We're going to reference the current filter chain that we're in and we'll say, do filter.
What do filter is going to do is run the next filter and the filter chain, and that's where the request
is going to go next.
It's going to reach the authentication filter.
Let's try that again.
Press send starts from filter one.
And then change DU filter triggers the next filter in our filter chain and now it's going to attempt
authentication.
And then just like before, it's going to go through the authentication filter.
And then we're going to get the expected 403.
And now, as it's about to send back the error response, we're going backwards in the filter chain.
Eventually sending the four three forbidden.
This was expected because every single request that we make to any path, unless that path is registered
or h to it's not going to get authorized unless we authenticate.
And before we do that in the next video, let's play around a little more with filters.
So after the auth filter, what I'm going to do is add a filter after it.
And before I'm able to set anything up, let me create a new filter called filter two dot Java.
We'll copy what we have over here.
Call this filter to.
And here for fun.
What I'm going to do is use the same object mapper as before to grab the payload from the request that
eventually gets passed into filter to.
So we can just put this over here.
An import user class.
So once the request reaches this filter, we are once again extracting its values.
And then we're just going to print them.
System.out.println.
User dot get username and then user dot get password.
For now remove this.
We seem to have an error and that is because we now have to add our filter to.
But this filter is going to get invoked after the authentication filter.
Think we're ready to add some breakpoints and try this out again.
All right.
And we're not done yet.
This filter will never get reached because we're not telling the authentication filter when to trigger
the next filter and the filter chain.
So what we can do here is actually override the filter and then just say chain, do filter.
All right, let's try this out.
Make sure to put your breakpoints.
Where needed.
Let's press send starts at the first filter.
Makes sense.
It seems that the authentication filter got skipped while it didn't.
I just forgot to put a breakpoint over here because when the filter runs, the first thing that gets
invoked is do filter and this is going to call chain do filter.
So it might seem like filter two was triggered before the authentication filter.
I just forgot to put a breakpoint over here.
So that's going to call filter two.
And then the socket hung up because I took too long.
Let me just try this again.
Anyways, now we have our breakpoint goes here, which is eventually just going to call the next filter
in the filter chain completely skipping everything else.
And all right, we get back a status of 200 because it didn't really try to authenticate and nothing
really happens after filter two.
So there's nothing to really report on.
All right.
And that's all the playing around with filters that I want to do.
I'm going to delete filter two.
Now in spring security.
Typically when you're setting up your custom filter you want to inherit from so we'll say extends you
want to inherit from the once per request filter class instead of implementing the generic filter interface
and the once per request filter is guaranteed to only run once per request.
And now here instead of do filter, we're going to say do filter internal, which is very convenient
because now our request is already type casted to a HTTP request.
Let's make sure to clean up over here and we're going to call this exception handler filter.
Rename this file accordingly.
Exception handler filter.
Dot Java, deleting all of the imports we don't need.
And so here's my plan.
What we're going to do is have an exception handler filter and that's going to be the first filter to
get invoked before any other filter.
The exception handler filter, it's going to be the first filter to receive a request and then it's
going to call change do filter.
We have no idea which filter is going to run next.
Depends on the scenario and we don't even have the JWT authorization filter set up yet.
But just bear with me.
Let's say we have two custom filters.
We're going to set up the exception handler filter to always be first.
And it doesn't matter which filter gets invoked next because we're going to wrap Chandu filter in a
try block.
And if any runtime exception is thrown in a follow up filter, then it's going to get caught in the
catch block.
And from the catch block, we can modify the response that we want to send back.
So basically we just created our own global exception handler for spring security filters.
So what I'm going to do here is say.
Try to run the next filter.
Now it's filter.
Change.
Do filter.
Try to run the next filter and the filter chain.
And catch whatever onetime exception that you get.
Now, let's say you had four types of exceptions that would get thrown, then back in your exception
handler filter.
You can have as many catch blocks as you want.
Each one handling its own type of exception, similar to what you would have in your global exception.
HANDLER But now we're handling exceptions for security filters.
And in the event of a runtime exception, what we're going to do is change the response status to a
400 bad request http server response dot SC.
Bond request, you can feel free to update the response body, give it some JSON, do whatever you want.
I'm happy with the setup.
So what I'm going to do is put a breakpoint on the exception handler filter.
I'll put a breakpoint over here because this is what I'm interested in and I will fix my security config.
The first filter that's going to run before anything is a new instance of the exception handler filter.
All right.
I think we're all done.
Let's try it out.
I seem to have some errors.
These don't exist anymore.
Let's try this again.
Um, let me disable the breakpoints for now.
Shouldn't even have these, actually.
Re-enable the breakpoints.
All right.
I am going to pass in some faulty JSON fields.
Press next.
Our object mapper fails to map these JSON fields into the properties of a user, so we catch the IO
exception that it throws in turn throwing a runtime exception which is going to be caught in our catch
block.
Isn't that beautiful?
And then we're setting the status of the response to be bad request instead of the default 403 forbidden.
And by virtue of sending back a bad request, we're telling the user, Hey, you messed up, please
fix it up.
Let's move on to part three where we implement our authentication manager.